We had a closer look at error handling,
now let me remove that code here where I create a duplicate ID so that it works again.
I hope you got an idea of how error handling can work and how we can use that central error handling
function or our own logic which we have in place all the time where we check for the existence of a
product and redirect otherwise and so on.
So we get a bunch of code already in our application where we do handle a certain situations which we
want to avoid of course
and you can always be more creative and handle them in a better way.
For example here and get added product,
if I don't find a product, I redirect to the starting page.
Now you can of course enhance this and you could redirect back to the admin products page and flash
a message onto that page which you then output in the ejs template to give the user more information
on what went wrong,
I'm not doing this here to not spend a lot of time on working on the UI only but these are all things
you can do. What I want you to takeaway here is that you have measures or that you have tools for
handling errors
and one of the most important tool is to at least handle all these catch blocks here correctly
and therefore I will do that and replace it with my catch block where I throw that error or where I
forward this error here because this allows me to at least centrally handle them with a 500 page, if
I do nothing else,
this is better than nothing.
So I'll use that on all my catch blocks here, also in auth.js,
there not for this one here
but for this one, I'll also add this catch block, the same for this one, basically for all the catch blocks
where I just log something to the console,
there I want to forward to the 500 page. Here as well and you can call that anywhere of course, not
just inside the next block
whenever you create an error object and you next it and you avoid any code being executed
after this by returning next with the error, whenever you do that, you end up in your express error
handling function.
And just because it's really important, this is just one way of handling this,
you also have all the other if checks and so on which we added,
so this is just my last resort here that I always do at least that if everything else fails.
And now we should have an application which is a little bit more hardened or at least shows some message
to the user when something fails instead of just doing well
nothing basically as we did before because you want to avoid situations where the app just crashes and
you don't even tell the user, it's better to have some code in place that at least returns an error page.
And now with all these changes here, you should be able to still click around and use that application
as you did before,
you can also delete for example, so that all works.
But now we got proper error handling in place for scenarios where something does go wrong.